Tinylicious Documentation (#7608)
microsoft/FluidFramework: docs/content/docs/testing/tinylicious.md

---
title: Tinylicious
menuPosition: 1
editor: sdeshpande3
---

## What is Tinylicious?

> Tinylicious is a local, in-memory Fluid service intended for prototyping and development purpose. The [TinyliciousClient]({{< relref "tinyliciousclient.md" >}}) is designed to work specifically with the Tinylicious service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Tinylicious** is a local, in-memory Fluid service intended for prototyping and development purpose. The [TinyliciousClient]({{< relref "tinyliciousclient.md" >}}) is designed to work specifically with the Tinylicious service.
```

## Using Tinylicious locally

You can run `Tinylicious` locally by executing the following command:

```sh
npx tinylicious@latest
```

> By default, `Tinylicious` runs on port `7070`. You can change port by setting the `PORT` environment variable when running Tinylicious. Setting environment variables will vary based on the shell you are using. For example, the `Windows PowerShell` commands below will run Tinylicious on port `6502`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Tinylicious runs on port 7070. You can change port by setting the `PORT` environment variable when running Tinylicious. Setting environment variables will vary based on the shell you are using. For example, the Windows PowerShell commands below will run Tinylicious on port 6502.
```

Remove all the code formatting for words like Tinylicious and Windows PowerShell. Same for the port numbers, but since `PORT` is referring to the variable, leave the code formatting.

```sh
$env:PORT=6502
npx tinylicious@latest
```

> Now Tinylicious is listening on port `6502`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now Tinylicious is listening on port 6502.
```

## How to deploy using Tinylicious

`TinyliciousClient` provides the ability to have a Fluid object backed by a `Tinylicious` service. Check out [FluidHelloWorld]({{< relref "tutorial.md" >}}) example for setting up the tinylicious client and server.

1. Run `Tinylicious` by running the following command,

```sh
npx tinylicious@latest
```

3. Run `TinyliciousClient` by running the following command,

```sh
npm run start:client
```

##  Testing with Tinylicious and multiple clients

When testing, it can be useful to make Tinylicious available outside localhost. You can use a service like [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) to expose the Tinylicious port on your local machine to the internet. ngrok gives you a random hostname for each tunnel you create and routes requests to your locally-running Tinylicious service.

To use Tinylicious with ngrok, use the following steps. If you do not have an ngrok account, you can sign up at <https://ngrok.com/>.

1. Sign in to the ngrok dashboard and click "Your Authtoken". You will need this token to authenticate with ngrok.

2. [Download ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) and unzip the file.

> 3. Connect to your account by running the following command.
> 
> ```sh
> ngrok authtoken <YOUR NGROK AUTHTOKEN>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Connect to your account by running the following command.

    ```sh
    ngrok authtoken <YOUR NGROK AUTHTOKEN>
    ```
```

If you don't indent this it won't be under the parent `<li>`.

Running this command will add your authtoken to the default ngrok.yml configuration file.

4. Run Tinylicious service locally

> ```sh
> npx tinylicious@latest
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```sh
    npx tinylicious@latest
    ```
```

5. Start ngrok and point it to the Tinylicious port. By default, Tinylicious is running on port 7070, so the `PORT_NUMBER` in the below command would be `7070`. If you are running against a non-default port, the `PORT_NUMBER` would vary.

> ```sh
> ngrok http PORT_NUMBER
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```sh
    ngrok http PORT_NUMBER
    ```
```

> After running this command, you will see the `Forwarding` URL in your terminal, which can be used to access Tinylicious. By default, ngrok assumes that your local server is just serving http and goes ahead and provides you with a URL that supports both `http` and `https` tunneling through to your local server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing the final step, you will see the *Forwarding URL* in your terminal, which can be used to access Tinylicious. By default, ngrok assumes that your local server is just serving http and goes ahead and provides you with a URL that supports both HTTP and HTTPS tunneling through to your local server.
```

---
title: Tinylicious
menuPosition: 1
editor: sdeshpande3
---

## What is Tinylicious?

Tinylicious is a local, in-memory service used for prototyping and development purpose. You can find the code for the [Tinylicious service](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/tree/main/server/tinylicious) and [Tinylicious client](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/tree/main/packages/framework/tinylicious-client). It can be instantiated against both `AzureClient` and `TinyliciousClient` for testing purpose.

## Using Tinylicious locally

> You can run tinylicious locally by executing the following command,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run tinylicious locally by executing the following command:
```

```sh

> npx tinylicious

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
npx tinylicious@latest
```

```

> By default, Tinylicious runs on port `7070`, however you can change port by navigating to `server/tinylicious` and running the below command on `Windows Powershell` by specifying the port number,

Reviewer 2: They don't need to run tinylicious from the actual server/tinylicious directory in the repo. Just setting the environment variable and then running the npx command should suffice

```sh
$env:PORT=6502
npm run start
```

> Now, you can navigate to `http://localhost:6502` on your browser to see Tinylicious service up and running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, you can navigate to `http://localhost:6502` on your browser to see the Tinylicious service up and running.
```

## How to deploy using Tinylicious

The `AzureClient` supports both instantiating against a deployed Azure Fluid Relay service instance for production scenarios, as well as against a local, in-memory service instance, known as Tinylicious, for development purposes.

> You can connect to a live Azure Fluid Relay instance by passing in the tenant ID as `local`, the orderer and storage URLs  pointing to the Tinylicious instance on the default values of `http://localhost:7070` to connect to a local Tinylicious server for development purposes. You can use `InsecureTokenProvider` for token resolution while running the service locally for development purposes.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence needs to be reconstructed. We're talking about Tinylicious here right? Not the Azure instance

In the below code snippet, `AzureClient` is pointing to Tinylicious service. This is providing you with an added feature to work with both the local Tinylicious service and the deployed Azure Fluid Relay service. `TinyliciousClient` only works with local Tinylicous service.

```typescript

> import { AzureFunctionTokenProvider, AzureClient, AzureConnectionConfig } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import { AzureClient, AzureConnectionConfig } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";
```

import { InsecureTokenProvider } from "@fluidframework/test-client-utils";

const user = {
    id: "UserId",
    name: "Test User",
};

const connectionConfig: AzureConnectionConfig = {
    tenantId: "local",
    tokenProvider: new InsecureTokenProvider("fooBar", user),
    // if you're running Tinylicious on a non-default port, you'll need change these URLs
    orderer: "http://localhost:7070",
    storage: "http://localhost:7070",
};

> const client = new AzureClient(connectionConfig);

Reviewer 2: The `AzureClient` now takes in a prop that contains the config as a parameter. The config cannot be passed in directly to initialize it.

```

> To launch the local Tinylicious service instance, run `npx tinylicious` from your terminal window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To launch the local Tinylicious service instance, run `npx tinylicious@latest` from your terminal window.
```

## Using custom domains with Tinylicious

You can use `ngrok` which lets you expose port on your local machine to the internet. Ngrok gives you a random hostname for each tunnel. This tool enables you to attach domains/subdomains against those tunnels.

1. Navigate to [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) and Sign-up. There would be an `AUTH_TOKEN` generated on signing up.

2. Download [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) and unzip the folder

3. Connect to your account by running the following command,

```sh
ngrok authtoken AUTH_TOKEN
```

Running this command will add your authtoken to the default ngrok.yml configuration file.

4. Run Tinylicious service locally

```sh

> npx tinylicious

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
npx tinylicious@latest
```

```

> 5. Fire ngrok

Reviewer 2: Let's move the instructions about what `PORT_NUMBER` would be up to here so that readers know what to expect to fill out for the command before they read the command

```sh
ngrok http PORT_NUMBER
```

> By default, Tinylicious is running on port 7070, so the `PORT_NUMBER` in the above command would be `7070`. If you are running againt a non-default port, the `PORT_NUMBER`  would vary. After running this command, you will see the `Forwarding` url in your terminal, which can be used to access Tinylicious.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Tinylicious is running on port 7070, so the `PORT_NUMBER` in the above command would be `7070`. If you are running againt a non-default port, the `PORT_NUMBER` would vary. After running this command, you will see the `Forwarding` URL in your terminal, which can be used to access Tinylicious by replacing the `orderer` and `storage` URLs in the `AzureConnectionConfig`.
```

---
title: Tinylicious
menuPosition: 1
editor: sdeshpande3
---

## What is Tinylicious?

> Tinylicious is a local, in-memory service used for prototyping and development purpose. You can find the code for the [Tinylicious service](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/tree/main/server/tinylicious) and [Tinylicious client](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/tree/main/packages/framework/tinylicious-client). It can be instantiated against both `AzureClient` and `TinyliciousClient` for testing purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tinylicious is a local, in-memory Fluid service intended for prototyping and development purpose. You can use both [AzureClient]]({{< relref "azureclient.md" >}}) and [TinyliciousClient]({{< relref "tinyliciousclient.md" >}}) with Tinylicious for testing purposes.
```
I'd omit the links to the source; if they're important add them to a "more information" section at the bottom of the doc.

## Using Tinylicious locally

> You can run tinylicious locally by executing the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run Tinylicious locally by executing the following command:
```

```sh
npx tinylicious@latest
```

> By default, Tinylicious runs on port `7070`, however you can change port by setting an environment variable as `PORT` by running the below command in `Windows Powershell`,
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Tinylicious runs on port 7070. You can change port by setting the `PORT` environment variable when running Tinylicious. Setting environment variables will vary based on the shell you are using. For example, the Windows PowerShell commands below will run Tinylicious on port 6502.

```

```sh
$env:PORT=6502
npx tinylicious@latest
```

> Now, you can navigate to `http://localhost:6502` on your browser to see the Tinylicious service up and running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now Tinylicious is listening on port 6502.
```

## How to deploy using Tinylicious

> The `AzureClient` supports both instantiating against a deployed Azure Fluid Relay service instance for production scenarios, as well as against a local, in-memory service instance, known as Tinylicious, for development purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `AzureClient` supports Tinylicious for development purposes in addition to deployed Azure Fluid Relay service instances for production scenarios.
```

@skylerjokiel Should we mention AzureClient + Tinylicious now that we have the local Azure package?

> `AzureClient` can be connected to a local Tinylicious instance by passing in the tenant ID as `local`, the orderer and storage URLs  pointing to the Tinylicious instance on the default values of `http://localhost:7070`. You can use `InsecureTokenProvider` for token resolution while running the service locally for development purposes.

Reviewer 2: When referring to usage with the `AzureClient`, lets refer to Tinylicious as Azure local service and have it run using `npx @fluidframework/azure-local-service@latest`

> `AzureClient` can be connected to a `Azure local service (Tinylicious)` instance by passing in the tenant ID as `local`, the orderer and storage URLs  pointing to the Tinylicious instance on the default values of `http://localhost:7070`. You can use `InsecureTokenProvider` for token resolution while running the service locally for development purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AzureClient` can be connected to a Tinylicious instance by passing in the configuration values shown below. You can use `InsecureTokenProvider` for token resolution while running the service locally for development purposes.
```

In the below code snippet, `AzureClient` is pointing to Tinylicious service. This is providing you with an added feature to work with both the local Tinylicious service and the deployed Azure Fluid Relay service. `TinyliciousClient` only works with local Tinylicous service.

```typescript

> import { AzureClient, AzureConnectionConfig } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";
> import { InsecureTokenProvider } from "@fluidframework/test-client-utils";
> 
> const user = {
>     id: "UserId",
>     name: "Test User",
> };
> 
> const config: AzureConnectionConfig = {
>     tenantId: "local",
>     tokenProvider: new InsecureTokenProvider("fooBar", user),
>     // if you're running Tinylicious on a non-default port, you'll need change these URLs
>     orderer: "http://localhost:7070",
>     storage: "http://localhost:7070",
> };
> 
> const clientProps = {
>   connection: config,
> }
> 
> const client = new AzureClient(clientProps);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { AzureClient, AzureConnectionConfig, LOCAL_MODE_TENANT_ID } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";
import { InsecureTokenProvider } from "@fluidframework/test-client-utils";

const user = {
    id: "UserId",
    name: "Test User",
};

const config: AzureConnectionConfig = {
    tenantId: LOCAL_MODE_TENANT_ID,
    tokenProvider: new InsecureTokenProvider("anyValue", user),
    // if you're running Tinylicious on a non-default port, you'll need change these URLs
    orderer: "http://localhost:7070",
    storage: "http://localhost:7070",
};

const clientProps = {
  connection: config,
}

const client = new AzureClient(clientProps);
```

```

> To launch the local Tinylicious service instance, run `npx @fluidframework/azure-local-service@latest` from your terminal window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To launch the local Tinylicious service instance, run `npx tinylicious@latest` from your terminal window.
```

We should be consistent and use either Tinylicious everywhere or the new package everywhere.

> ## Using custom domains with Tinylicious

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Testing with Tinylicious and multiple clients.
```

> You can use `ngrok` which lets you expose port on your local machine to the internet. Ngrok gives you a random hostname for each tunnel. This tool enables you to attach domains/subdomains against those tunnels.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When testing, it can be useful to make Tinylicious available outside localhost. You can use a service like [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) to expose the Tinylicious port on your local machine to the internet. ngrok gives you a random hostname for each tunnel you create and routes requests to your locally-running Tinylicious service.

```

> 1. Navigate to [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) and Sign-up. There would be an `AUTH_TOKEN` generated on signing up.
> 
> 2. Download [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) and unzip the folder
> 
> 3. Connect to your account by running the following command,
> 
> ```sh
> ngrok authtoken AUTH_TOKEN
> ```
> 
> Running this command will add your authtoken to the default ngrok.yml configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Tinylicious with ngrok, use the following steps. If you do not have an ngrok account, you can sign up at <https://ngrok.com/>.

1. Sign in to the ngrok dashboard and click "Your Authtoken". You will need this token to authenticate with ngrok.
2. [Download ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) and unzip the file.
3. Connect to your account by running the following command.

    ```sh
    ngrok authtoken <YOUR NGROK AUTHTOKEN>
    ```

    Running this command will add your authtoken to the default ngrok.yml configuration file.
```

4. Run Tinylicious service locally

```sh
npx tinylicious@latest
```

5. Fire ngrok. By default, Tinylicious is running on port 7070, so the `PORT_NUMBER` in the below command would be `7070`. If you are running againt a non-default port, the `PORT_NUMBER` would vary.

```sh
ngrok http PORT_NUMBER
```

After running this command, you will see the `Forwarding` URL in your terminal, which can be used to access Tinylicious by replacing the `orderer` and `storage` URLs in the `AzureConnectionConfig`.

> If you are using the `Free` subscription of `ngrok`, there would random hexadecimal names generated to the HTTP tunnel opened for you. If you want to specify your subdomain, you would have to upgrade to their [paid plans](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/billing/plan). Once upgraded, you can run the below command by specifying your custom domain name and port number on which your local Tinylicious service is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your ngrok account includes the capability to set custom domains or subdomains, you can use the following command to use a custom domain instead of a randomly-generated one.
```

---
title: Tinylicious
menuPosition: 1
editor: sdeshpande3
---

## What is Tinylicious?

> Tinylicious is a local, in-memory Fluid service intended for prototyping and development purpose. You can use both [AzureClient]]({{< relref "azureclient.md" >}}) and [TinyliciousClient]({{< relref "tinyliciousclient.md" >}}) with Tinylicious for testing purposes.

Reviewer 3: Let's not mention AzureClient integration since we are introducing a specific service for the AzureClient to use in testing scenarios.

```suggestion
Tinylicious is a local, in-memory Fluid service intended for prototyping and development purpose. The [TinyliciousClient]({{< relref "tinyliciousclient.md" >}}) is designed to work specifically with the Tinylicious service.
```

## Using Tinylicious locally

You can run Tinylicious locally by executing the following command:

```sh
npx tinylicious@latest
```

By default, Tinylicious runs on port `7070`. You can change port by setting the `PORT` environment variable when running Tinylicious. Setting environment variables will vary based on the shell you are using. For example, the `Windows PowerShell` commands below will run Tinylicious on port `6502`.

```sh
$env:PORT=6502
npx tinylicious@latest
```

Now Tinylicious is listening on port `6502`.

## How to deploy using Tinylicious

> The `AzureClient` supports Tinylicious for development purposes in addition to deployed Azure Fluid Relay service instances for production scenarios.

Reviewer 3: As we talked about let's get this to focus on TinyliciousClient and have a second doc on DCOM about AzureClient

};

const clientProps = {
  connection: config,
}

const client = new AzureClient(clientProps);
```

To launch the local Tinylicious service instance, run `npx tinylicious@latest` from your terminal window.

##  Testing with Tinylicious and multiple clients

When testing, it can be useful to make Tinylicious available outside localhost. You can use a service like [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) to expose the Tinylicious port on your local machine to the internet. ngrok gives you a random hostname for each tunnel you create and routes requests to your locally-running Tinylicious service.

To use Tinylicious with ngrok, use the following steps. If you do not have an ngrok account, you can sign up at <https://ngrok.com/>.

1. Sign in to the ngrok dashboard and click "Your Authtoken". You will need this token to authenticate with ngrok.

2. [Download ngrok](https://ngrok.com/download) and unzip the file.

3. Connect to your account by running the following command.

```sh
ngrok authtoken <YOUR NGROK AUTHTOKEN>
```

Running this command will add your authtoken to the default ngrok.yml configuration file.

4. Run Tinylicious service locally

```sh
npx tinylicious@latest
```

> 5. Fire ngrok. By default, Tinylicious is running on port 7070, so the `PORT_NUMBER` in the below command would be `7070`. If you are running againt a non-default port, the `PORT_NUMBER` would vary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Start ngrok and point it to the Tinylicious port. By default, Tinylicious is running on port 7070, so the `PORT_NUMBER` in the below command would be `7070`. If you are running against a non-default port, the `PORT_NUMBER` would vary.
```

```sh

> ngrok http PORT_NUMBER

Reviewer 3: does ngrok not support https?

```suggestion
ngrok https PORT_NUMBER
```

Reviewer 4: The `Forwarding` URL provided after running the above command supports both `http` and `https` tunneling.
